fix typo: adressed -> addressed (#2598)
huggingface/blog: static-embeddings.md

---

> title: "Static Embedding Models Reimagined for Near-Instant CPU Inference" 

Author: That's a really solid idea. I was already hesitant on the name, so this is a great excuse to change it up. I'll do some brainstorming.

> title: "Static Embedding Models Reimagined for Near-Instant CPU Inference" 

Author: Fixed in ba17a0216ace47eec6866ff50af4d9912f591e9a

thumbnail: /blog/assets/train-sentence-transformers/st-hf-thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: tomaarsen
---

> # Static Embedding Models Reimagined for Near-Instant CPU Inference

Author: Fixed in ba17a0216ace47eec6866ff50af4d9912f591e9a

## TL;DR

> This blogpost introduces 2 extremely efficient embedding models, [sentence-transformers/static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1) for English Retrieval and [sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1) for Multilingual Similarity tasks. These models are **100x to 400x faster on CPU** than common counterparts like [all-mpnet-base-v2](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2) and [multilingual-e5-small](https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small), while reaching at least **85%** of their performance on various benchmarks.
> 
> Additionally, we detail the training approach from inspiration all the way to the training scripts. The 2 model weights, 30 training & 13 evaluation datasets, 2 training scripts, and the training library are all public. Lastly, we propose potential enhancements for model authors to build upon this work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blog post introduces a method to train static embedding models that run 100x to 400x faster on CPU than state-of-the-art embedding models, while retaining most of the quality. This unlocks a lot of exciting use cases, including on-device and in-browser execution, edge computing, low power and embedded applications.

We apply this recipe to train two extremely efficient embedding models: [sentence-transformers/static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1) for English Retrieval, and [sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1) for Multilingual Similarity tasks. These models are **100x to 400x faster on CPU** than common counterparts like [all-mpnet-base-v2](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2) and [multilingual-e5-small](https://huggingface.co/intfloat/multilingual-e5-small), while reaching at least **85%** of their performance on various benchmarks.

Today, we are releasing:
- The two models (for retrieval and for similarity) mentioned above.
- The detailed training strategy we followed, from ideation to dataset selection to implementation and evaluation.
- The two training scripts, based on the open-source sentence transformers library.
- The detailed list of datasets we used: 30 for training and 13 for evaluation.

We also discuss potential enhancements, and encourage the community to explore them and build on this work!
```

> ![NanoBEIR performance vs inference speed](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/static-embeddings/nano_beir_vs_speed_gpu.png)

Author: Indeed, this figure is not well explained right here, it's more just to pique your interest. I'm also down with removing it altogether.

> ![NanoBEIR performance vs inference speed](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/static-embeddings/nano_beir_vs_speed_gpu.png)

Reviewer 2: I think the image definitely helps, adding a legend would be a low hanging fruit imo.

> ![NanoBEIR performance vs inference speed](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/static-embeddings/nano_beir_vs_speed_gpu.png)

Author: There's a bit too many models to all add in the legend, I reckon. Perhaps a fix would be to add an arrow or embolden the one new model in this figure, i.e. the `static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1`?

> ![NanoBEIR performance vs inference speed](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/static-embeddings/nano_beir_vs_speed_gpu.png)

Reviewer: Perhaps also a circle around the "static" and "dense" groups, if you think it's not too much.

> ![NanoBEIR performance vs inference speed](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/static-embeddings/nano_beir_vs_speed_gpu.png)

Author: I did some attempts. I'm not too sure about the grouping, maybe it's distracting?
I wasn't a fan of increasing the name size/boldness, so I tried expanding the edge line. It's not quite as clean as I had hoped.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ad915ca3-ec52-481e-bcc9-9f610411aede)

> ![NanoBEIR performance vs inference speed](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/static-embeddings/nano_beir_vs_speed_gpu.png)

Author: I've gotten feedback to make the new model a star - I'll be doing that!

> ![NanoBEIR performance vs inference speed](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/static-embeddings/nano_beir_vs_speed_gpu.png)

Author: Here's the final version:
![nano_beir_vs_speed_gpu](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/387386b2-1e08-4bba-8fc2-11e999a00454)

> ![NanoBEIR performance vs inference speed](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/static-embeddings/nano_beir_vs_speed_gpu.png)

Author: BM25 is neither, it's a Sparse model instead, so it's convenient that it falls outside of either range.

> ## Table of Contents

Author: The updated tl;dr is much clearer on this now. What do you think?

> ## Table of Contents

Reviewer 2: Perfecto! 🔥

      * [Code](#code-2)
  + [Training Arguments Selection](#training-arguments-selection)
    - [Code](#code-3)
  + [Evaluator Selection](#evaluator-selection)
    - [Code](#code-4)
  + [Hardware Details](#hardware-details)
  + [Overall Training Scripts](#overall-training-scripts)
    - [English Retrieval](#english-retrieval-1)
    - [Multilingual Similarity](#multilingual-similarity-1)
* [Usage](#usage)
  + [English Retrieval](#english-retrieval-2)
  + [Multilingual Similarity](#multilingual-similarity-2)
  + [Matryoshka Dimensionality Truncation](#matryoshka-dimensionality-truncation)
  + [Third Party libraries](#third-party-libraries)
    - [LangChain](#langchain)
    - [LlamaIndex](#llamaindex)
    - [Haystack](#haystack)
    - [txtai](#txtai)
* [Performance](#performance)
  + [English Retrieval](#english-retrieval-3)
    - [NanoBEIR](#nanobeir)
      * [GPU](#gpu)
      * [CPU](#cpu)
    - [Matryoshka Evaluation](#matryoshka-evaluation)
  + [Multilingual Similarity](#multilingual-similarity-3)
    - [Matryoshka Evaluation](#matryoshka-evaluation-1)
* [Conclusion](#conclusion)
* [Next Steps](#next-steps)

> ## What are Embeddings?

Reviewer 2: Feel free to disagree, but IMO, it might be worth introducing the models and maybe a smol inference snippet here in a small paragraph - this would satisfy the curious ones

Author: What do you think about 07e0fcf4ba463b2fbbfbb0defb6306d834353263 in the tl;dr? It's behind a `<details>` but otherwise the tl;dr might get too big? The models are semi-introduced a bit above already.

Reviewer 2: yes looks very nice

![embedding pipeline](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/static-embeddings/embedding_pipeline.svg)

The `Tokenizer` and `Pooler` are responsible for pre- and post-processing for the `Encoder`, respectively. The former chops texts up into tokens (a.k.a. words or subwords) which can be understood by the `Encoder`, whereas the latter combines the embeddings for all tokens into one embedding for the entire text.

Within this pipeline, the `Encoder` is often a language model with attention layers, which allows each token to be computed within the *context* of the other tokens. For example, `bank` might be a token, but the token embedding for that token will likely be different if the text refers to a "river bank" or the financial institution.

Large encoder models with a lot of attention layers will be effective at using the context to produce useful embeddings, but they do so at a high price of slow inference. Notably, in the pipeline, the `Encoder` step is generally responsible for almost all of the computational time.

### Static Embeddings

> Static Embeddings refers to a group of `Encoder` models that don't use large and slow attention-based models, but instead rely on pre-computed token embeddings. Common examples from the last decade include [GLoVe](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/) and [word2vec](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Word2vec).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Static Embeddings refers to a group of `Encoder` models that don't use large and slow attention-based models, but instead rely on pre-computed token embeddings. Static embeddings were used years before the transformer architecture was developed. Common examples include [GLoVe](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/) and [word2vec](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Word2vec).
```

> For Static Embeddings, the `Encoder` step is as simple as a dictionary lookup: given the token, return the pre-computed token embedding. Consequently, inference is suddenly no longer bottlenecked by the `Encoder` phase, resulting in **speedups of several orders of magnitude**. This blogpost will show that the resulting benchmark performance hit is rather small.

Author: Nice! I always struggle with saying "decreased performance" without giving the impression that I'm talking about the inference speed.

> ## Training Details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Our Method

We set out to revisit Static Embeddings models, using modern techniques to train them. Most of our gains come from the use of a contrastive learning loss function, as we'll explain shortly. Optionally, we can get additional speed improvements by using Matryoshka representation learning, which makes it possible to use truncated versions of the embedding vectors.

## Training Details
```

Not sure if it merits a new section, but thought it'd be interesting to outline it.

Author: I like it. I'll have to remember to update the ToC once everything else is ready.

  
   Instead, with Contrastive Learning, we have multiple inputs $X_1$ and $X_2$, and a similarity. We feed both inputs through the model, after which we can *contrast* the two embeddings resulting in a predicted similarity. We can then push the embeddings further apart if the true similarity is low, or pull the embeddings closer together if the true similarity is high.

2. **Matryoshka Representation Learning (MRL)**: Matryoshka Embedding Models ([blogpost](https://huggingface.co/blog/matryoshka)) is a clever training approach that allows users to truncate embedding models to smaller dimensions at a minimal performance hit by training. It involves using the contrastive loss function not just with the normal-sized embedding, but also with truncated versions. Consequently, the model trains to store information primarily at the start of the embeddings.

    Truncated embeddings will be faster with downstream applications, such as retrieval, classification, and clustering.

For future research, we leave various other modern training approaches for improving data quality. See [Next Steps](#next-steps) for concrete ideas.

### Training Requirements

> As shown in the [Training Overview](https://sbert.net/docs/sentence_transformer/training_overview.html) documentation in Sentence Transformers, training consists of 3 to 5 components:

Author: I hadn't thought of that, good one!

1. Dataset
2. Loss Function
3. Training Arguments (Optional)
4. Evaluator (Optional)
5. Trainer

In the following sections, we'll go through our thought processes for each of these.

### Model Inspiration

> In my experience, embedding models are either used 1) exclusively for retrieval or 2) for every task under the sun (classification, clustering, semantic textual similarity, etc.). And such, we set out to train one of each.

Author: I usually go for "we", probably because of scientific literature. I think I'll lean fully in that direction, see 3c874946d79155ad6d2ef3ad4e30c10b1b9b44c4

- [paq](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sentence-transformers/paq)
- [trivia_qa](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sentence-transformers/trivia-qa)
- [msmarco_10m](https://huggingface.co/datasets/bclavie/msmarco-10m-triplets)
- [swim_ir](https://huggingface.co/datasets/nthakur/swim-ir-monolingual) - the "en" subset
- [pubmedqa](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sentence-transformers/pubmedqa) - the "triplet-20" subset
- [miracl](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sentence-transformers/miracl) - the "en-triplet-all" subset
- [mldr](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sentence-transformers/mldr) - the "en-triplet-all" subset
- [mr_tydi](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sentence-transformers/mr-tydi) - the "en-triplet-all" subset

#### Multilingual Similarity

For the Multilingual Similarity datasets, we aimed for datasets with:

* parallel sentences across languages, i.e. the same text in multiple languages, or
* positive pairs, i.e. pairs with high similarity, optionally with negatives (i.e. low similarity).

We selected the following datasets as they contain parallel sentences:
- [wikititles](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sentence-transformers/parallel-sentences-wikititles)

> - [tatoeba](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sentence-transformers/parallel-sentences-tatoeba) - the "all" subset

Author: Fair enough, the code already shows the "all" anyways for those who are really curious

> - [tatoeba](https://huggingface.co/datasets/sentence-transformers/parallel-sentences-tatoeba) - the "all" subset

Author: ffd6aed3644737d5fcc7c2d8b3eabfc102ebc9ab

### Loss Function Selection

Within Sentence Transformers, your loss model must match your training data format. The [Loss Overview](https://sbert.net/docs/sentence_transformer/loss_overview.html) is designed as an overview of which losses are compatible with which formats. 

In particular, we currently have the following formats in our data:
* (anchor, positive) pair, no label
* (anchor, positive, negative) triplet, no label
* (anchor, positive, negative_1, ..., negative_n) tuples, no label

For these formats, we have some excellent choices:
1. [`MultipleNegativesRankingLoss` (MNRL)](https://sbert.net/docs/package_reference/sentence_transformer/losses.html#multiplenegativesrankingloss): Also known as in-batch negatives loss or InfoNCE loss, this loss has been used to train modern embedding models for a handful of years. In short, the loss optimizes the following:

>     > Given an anchor (e.g. a question), find the sample with the highest similarity out of all positives (e.g. all answers) in the batch.

Author: Yes. I realised my explanation here was a bit off. Also because there's nothing to "optimize" in the current writing. We want to find the corresponding positive, not "the sample with the highest similarity out of all positives".

I improved this in d38a4147ec6aae059eb2739cf62d399e480945da

    Optionally, you can also provide this loss with negatives, and these will be included as options from which the model must pick the correct positive. Within reason, the harder this "picking" is, the stronger the model will become. Because of this, higher batch sizes increase performance (to a point).

2. [`CachedMultipleNegativesRankingLoss` (CMNRL)](https://sbert.net/docs/package_reference/sentence_transformer/losses.html#cachedmultiplenegativesrankingloss): This is an extension of MNRL that implements [GradCache](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2101.06983), an approach that allows for arbitrarily increasing the batch size without increasing the memory.

    This loss is recommended over MNRL *unless* you can already fit a large enough batch size in memory with just MNRL. In that case, you can use MNRL to save the 20% training speed cost that CMNRL adds.

3. [`GISTEmbedLoss` (GIST)](https://sbert.net/docs/package_reference/sentence_transformer/losses.html#gistembedloss): This is also an extension of MNRL, it uses a `guide` Sentence Transformer model to remove potential false negatives from the list of options that the model must "pick" the correct positive from. 

>     False negatives can hurt performance, but hard true negatives can help performance, so this filtering is a fine line to walk. 

Author: I expanded on it slightly in d38a4147ec6aae059eb2739cf62d399e480945da, but it's fine to keep as-is I think.

Because these static embedding models are extremely small, it is possible to fit our desired batch size of 2048 samples on our hardware: a single RTX 3090 with 24GB, so we don't need to use CMNRL.

Additionally, because we're training such fast models, the `guide` from the `GISTEmbedLoss` would make the training much slower. Because of this, we've opted to use [`MultipleNegativesRankingLoss`](https://sbert.net/docs/package_reference/sentence_transformer/losses.html#multiplenegativesrankingloss) for our models.

If we were to try these experiments again, we would pick a larger batch size, e.g. 16384 with CMNRL.

#### Code
The usage is rather simple:

```python
from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer
from sentence_transformers.losses import MultipleNegativesRankingLoss

# Load an example pre-trained model to finetune further
model = SentenceTransformer("sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2")

# Initialize the MNRL loss given the model

> loss = MultipleNegativesRankingLoss(model)

Author: I updated the model to train with 43b44b66c82a51b518e593a8810f1a5f65c19c02. This code was just an example for MNRL, but it makes sense to stay "on topic" here.

And for your first question: in Sentence Transformers, all losses are "wrappers" of the model. Rather than only accepting model predictions and true labels, ST losses get model *inputs*. This allows for some greater flexibility in how the model is fed the inputs. Otherwise, the CachedMultipleNegativesRankingLoss and MatryoshkaLoss would not be possible.

But unlike those 2 losses, it's primarily a leftover from the original ST implementation by Nils.

A very interesting one is the [`MatryoshkaLoss`](https://sbert.net/docs/package_reference/sentence_transformer/losses.html#matryoshkaloss), which turns the trained model into a *Matryoshka Model*. This allows users to truncate the output embeddings at a minimal loss of performance, meaning that retrieval or clustering can be sped up due to the smaller dimensionalities.

##### Code

The `MatryoshkaLoss` is applied on top of a normal loss. It's recommended to also include the normal embedding dimensionality in the list of `matryoshka_dims`:

```python
from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer
from sentence_transformers.losses import MultipleNegativesRankingLoss, MatryoshkaLoss

# Load an example pre-trained model to finetune further
model = SentenceTransformer("sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2")

# Initialize the MNRL loss given the model
base_loss = MultipleNegativesRankingLoss(model)

> loss = MatryoshkaLoss(model, base_loss, matryoshka_dims=[768, 512, 256, 128, 64, 32])

Author: Indeed, that example model only uses 768 as a hidden size I believe. 
Having said that, I've updated the model to train in 43b44b66c82a51b518e593a8810f1a5f65c19c02, and added 1024.

```

### Training Arguments Selection

Sentence Transformers supports a lot of valuable training arguments, the most valuable of which have been listed in the [Training Overview > Training Arguments](https://sbert.net/docs/sentence_transformer/training_overview.html#training-arguments) documentation.

Both models used the same core training parameters:
* `num_train_epochs`: 1
    * We have sufficient data, should we want to train for more, then we can add more data instead of training with the same data multiple times.
* `per_device_train_batch_size`/`per_device_eval_batch_size`: 2048
    * 2048 dimensions fit comfortably on my RTX 3090. Various papers ([Xiao et al.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.07597), [Li et al.](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2308.03281)) show that even larger batch sizes still improve performance. For future versions, we will apply `CachedMultipleNegativesRankingLoss` with a larger batch size, e.g. 16384.
* `learning_rate`: 2e-1

>     * Note! This is *much* larger than with normal embedding model training, which often uses a loss around 2e-5.

Author: There's no normal model weights to finetune; we're essentially only finetuning the embedding layer (i.e. the lookup), and it seems that these exclusively respond to extremely high learning rates. Or perhaps shorter/smaller models just require higher learning rates to begin with?

Either way, if you use the "normal" learning rate ranges, the model will go absolutely nowhere. Initially I almost wrote off this approach because the model did not want to train at all 😆

>     * Note! This is *much* larger than with normal embedding model training, which often uses a loss around 2e-5.

Reviewer: Super interesting, thanks!

        msmarco_10m_dataset_dict = msmarco_10m_dataset.train_test_split(test_size=10_000, seed=12)
        msmarco_10m_train_dataset: Dataset = msmarco_10m_dataset_dict["train"]
        msmarco_10m_eval_dataset: Dataset = msmarco_10m_dataset_dict["test"]
        print("Loaded msmarco_10m dataset.")

        print("Loading swim_ir dataset...")
        swim_ir_dataset = load_dataset("nthakur/swim-ir-monolingual", "en", split="train").select_columns(["query", "text"])
        swim_ir_dataset_dict = swim_ir_dataset.train_test_split(test_size=10_000, seed=12)
        swim_ir_train_dataset: Dataset = swim_ir_dataset_dict["train"]
        swim_ir_eval_dataset: Dataset = swim_ir_dataset_dict["test"]
        print("Loaded swim_ir dataset.")

        # NOTE: 20 negatives
        print("Loading pubmedqa dataset...")
        pubmedqa_dataset = load_dataset("sentence-transformers/pubmedqa", "triplet-20", split="train")
        pubmedqa_dataset_dict = pubmedqa_dataset.train_test_split(test_size=100, seed=12)
        pubmedqa_train_dataset: Dataset = pubmedqa_dataset_dict["train"]
        pubmedqa_eval_dataset: Dataset = pubmedqa_dataset_dict["test"]
        print("Loaded pubmedqa dataset.")

>         # NOTE: A lot of overlap with anchor/positives

Reviewer 2: This a lot of repeated code, maybe we can collapse this in the UI

Reviewer 2: Ah! scratch that, I saw that this is already in `details`

Author: Yeah these ones are huge 😆 They'll be collapsed by default.

        warmup_ratio=0.1,
        fp16=False,  # Set to False if you get an error that your GPU can't run on FP16
        bf16=True,  # Set to True if you have a GPU that supports BF16
        batch_sampler=BatchSamplers.NO_DUPLICATES,  # MultipleNegativesRankingLoss benefits from no duplicate samples in a batch
        multi_dataset_batch_sampler=MultiDatasetBatchSamplers.PROPORTIONAL,
        # Optional tracking/debugging parameters:
        eval_strategy="steps",
        eval_steps=1000,
        save_strategy="steps",
        save_steps=1000,
        save_total_limit=2,
        logging_steps=1000,
        logging_first_step=True,
        run_name=run_name,  # Will be used in W&B if `wandb` is installed
    )

    # 6. Create a trainer & train
    trainer = SentenceTransformerTrainer(
        model=model,
        args=args,
        train_dataset=train_dataset,
        eval_dataset=eval_dataset,
        loss=loss,
    )
    trainer.train()

    # 7. Save the trained model
    model.save_pretrained(f"models/{run_name}/final")

    # 8. (Optional) Push it to the Hugging Face Hub
    model.push_to_hub(run_name, private=True)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()
```

</details>

> This script produced [sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1) after 3.1 hours of training. In total, it consumed 0.5 kWh of energy and emitted 0.2kg of CO2. That is roughly 20% of the CO2 that an average person exhales per day.

Author: I do have them, but apparently there's not an easy way to make only the correct 2 public without also making the other 1900 runs from the last year public.

> This script produced [sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1) after 3.1 hours of training. In total, it consumed 0.5 kWh of energy and emitted 0.2kg of CO2. That is roughly 20% of the CO2 that an average person exhales per day.

Reviewer: Perhaps a report? Or it may require the full underlying project to be public, I don't remember.

> This script produced [sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1) after 3.1 hours of training. In total, it consumed 0.5 kWh of energy and emitted 0.2kg of CO2. That is roughly 20% of the CO2 that an average person exhales per day.

Author: Added 2 reports in 002a5ffb48b9468412ab210eeb440e2f28b88fe3

    'In a longitudinal study we investigated in vivo alterations of CVO during neuroinflammation, applying Gadofluorine M- (Gf) enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, an animal model of multiple sclerosis. SJL/J mice were monitored by Gadopentate dimeglumine- (Gd-DTPA) and Gf-enhanced MRI after adoptive transfer of proteolipid-protein-specific T cells. Mean Gf intensity ratios were calculated individually for different CVO and correlated to the clinical disease course. Subsequently, the tissue distribution of fluorescence-labeled Gf as well as the extent of cellular inflammation was assessed in corresponding histological slices.',
]
embeddings = model.encode(sentences)
print(embeddings.shape)
# [3, 1024]

# Get the similarity scores for the embeddings
similarities = model.similarity(embeddings[0], embeddings[1:])
print(similarities)

> # tensor([[0.7649, 0.3279]])

Reviewer: You are right! In that case, maybe just a brief mention about the evaluation section, if you think it's useful. When I was reading the post, I didn't know if those results were good, so reminding the reader that we're within xx% of the performance of the usual models, as shown in detail later, might be comforting.

> # tensor([[0.7649, 0.3279]])

Author: Resolved in b225eeabcd34641d78c2e607a7f595a20d5201df

model_name = "sentence-transformers/static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1"
model_kwargs = {'device': 'cpu'} # you can use 'truncate_dim' here
model = HuggingFaceEmbeddings(
    model_name=model_name,
    model_kwargs=model_kwargs,
)
```
* [`HuggingFaceEmbeddings` documentation](https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/huggingface/embeddings/langchain_huggingface.embeddings.huggingface.HuggingFaceEmbeddings.html).

#### LlamaIndex
```python
# pip install llama-index llama-index-embeddings-huggingface
from llama_index.core import Settings
from llama_index.embeddings.huggingface import HuggingFaceEmbedding

# Set up the HuggingFaceEmbedding class with the required model to use with llamaindex core.
model_name = "sentence-transformers/static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1"
device = "cpu"
embed_model = HuggingFaceEmbedding(
    model_name=model_name,
    device=device,
    # truncate_dim=256, # you can use 'truncate_dim' here
)
Settings.embed_model = embed_model
```

* [`HuggingFaceEmbedding` documentation](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/stable/examples/embeddings/huggingface/) and [API Reference](https://docs.llamaindex.ai/en/stable/api_reference/embeddings/huggingface/).

> #### Haystack

Author: It's mentioned in the 'Third Party libraries' section right?

> #### Haystack

Reviewer: Ah yes, missed it

    * **2x smaller** gives a **1.47% performance decrease** by [static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1) for English Retrieval.

Should you need an efficient CPU-only dense embedding model for your retrieval or similarity tasks, then [static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1) and [static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1) will be extremely performant solutions at minimal costs that get surprisingly close to the attention-based dense models.

## Next Steps

Try it out! If you already use a Sentence Transformer model somewhere, feel free to swap it out for [static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-retrieval-mrl-en-v1) or [static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1](https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/static-similarity-mrl-multilingual-v1).

Furthermore, some questions remain about the trained models:

> 1. Because Static Embedding-based models aren't bottlenecked by positional embeddings or superlinear time complexity, they can have arbitrarily high maximum sequence lengths. However, at some point the law of large numbers is likely to "normalize" all embeddings for really long documents, such that they aren't useful anymore.

Author: Yes, indeed. There might already be research on it, but I'm not aware of it. Perhaps I should rephrase this a bit.

> 1. Because Static Embedding-based models aren't bottlenecked by positional embeddings or superlinear time complexity, they can have arbitrarily high maximum sequence lengths. However, at some point the law of large numbers is likely to "normalize" all embeddings for really long documents, such that they aren't useful anymore.

Author: Updated the phrasing here: 663ebd57400933060db0890f1fd98035a2d0a5bc
